Peanut Butter Crème Brûlée

Ingredients 

For the Custard:
50 g peanut butter with no sugar added
1 Cup Heavy Whipping Cream
1 Cup whole milk
6 large egg yolks
1 vanilla bean pod
1 cup sugar (plus extra for coating)

For the Fruit Sauce:
¼ cup Screwball Peanut Butter Whiskey
2 tbsp butter
5 tbsp sugar
½ cup blueberries
½ cup strawberries

1. Preheat Oven to 325 F

2. Slice vanilla pods in half lengthwise. Scrape out the beans and add beans and empty pods to cream in a saucepan. Bring to a gentle boil, be sure to keep a close eye and stir or else your cream will scorch. Turn off heat, cover, and let steep for 15 minutes.

3. In a mixing bowl, whisk egg yolks, sugar, and peanut butter together. Once the cream has steeped and is slightly cooled slowly add to the yolk mixture. Be sure to add slowly while whisking to prevent eggs from scrambling. This process is called tempering and will keep the custard together while cooking. 

4. Once combined, pour equal parts of your custard into ramekins. Place ramekins in a casserole dish with boiling water. This is called a water bath and helps gently and evenly cook your custard. 

5. Place your dish in the preheated oven for 30-35 minutes, or until the centers have just slightly set and still giggle when the ramekin is tapped. 

6. Remove your creme brulees, cover with a tea towel and let cool at room temp for approximately 1 hour. Once cooled, place in the fridge for at least another hour or two.

7. When ready to serve, sprinkle a tablespoon of sugar on top of your creme brulees and using a torch, melt the sugar on top. It will liquify and you want it to turn slightly brown. Once all melted, set aside to harden. 

8. While the sugar is cooling, melt a tablespoon of butter in a pan, add a tablespoon of sugar and combine. Add your berries and mix while the pan is getting hot. Remove the pan from your cooktop and add your Screwball. The whiskey should begin to evaporate. Very carefully return the pan to the stove and slightly tilt to expose the whiskey vapor to the flame. This is called a flambe and it helps burn the alcohol off. There may be a decently large fireball that you will keep local to the pan. Please note this step is dangerous and should only be performed in a controlled setting with experienced cooks. If this part is intimidating you can always let the rum boil off away from the heat source to remove the alcohol prior to returning the pan to the stove.

9. Once whiskey is reduced you will be left with softened berries in a beautiful purple sauce. Add a few berries to your creme brulee and spoon some sauce atop. Garnish with small mint leaves and serve. 